---
title: Azure SignalR
toc: true
mermaid: true
date: 2023-05-01 12:00:00 +02
categories: [Azure, SignalR]
permalink: azure/signal-r
tags: [azure, signal-R, dotnet]
---

So at work we're currently using Azure Signal-R service for a real time chat feature inside an application. Because I
don't really understand how the Azure Signal-R service works, I thought let's figure it out.

## What is SignalR

Before we dig in, let's first understand what SignalR is.

According to Microsoft it's a "[...] library that simplifies adding real-time web functionality to apps. [..]". Which "[...] enables server-side code to push content to clients [...]" [(Microsoft, 2023)](https://learn.microsoft.com/nl-nl/aspnet/core/signalr/introduction?view=aspnetcore-7.0).

The SignalR library provides a way to use RPC (Remote Procedure Calls), to call a method from our client on the server. Or call a method from our server on the client. Let's suppose we have a small greeting application. In this application you can either be greeted by someone, or greet someone. With SignalR, this might look something like this.

```mermaid
flowchart LR

    clientOne["Client One"]
    clientTwo["Client Two"]
    signalR["SignalR"]

    clientOne -- "SendGreeting('Hello')" --> signalR
    signalR -- "ShowGreeting('Hello')" --> clientTwo
```

In this example Client One calls the `SendGreeting` method on the SignalR server with _Hello_ as a parameter. In turn, the SignalR server calls the `ShowGreeting` message on Client Two with the _Hello_ parameter given from Client One.

### Transport protocol

To execute this RPC SignalR supports three transport protocols, WebSockets, Server-Sent Events and Long Polling.

SignalR supports three types of transport protocol to communicate between clients and server [(Microsoft, 2023)](https://learn.microsoft.com/nl-nl/aspnet/core/signalr/introduction?view=aspnetcore-7.0):

1. WebSockets
2. Server-Sent Events
3. Long Polling
